docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to AquaMind Frontend

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 24.x (recommended: 24.5.0). Use the provided `.nvmrc` to align your local version.
- Git configured with your GitHub credentials
- (Optional) Access to AquaMind backend for live integration testing – not required for most frontend tasks because the **OpenAPI spec & generated client** allow fully offline development.

### Local Development
```bash
git clone https://github.com/aquarian247/AquaMind-Frontend.git
cd AquaMind-Frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Agent Rules — ALWAYS DO

* **Contract-first** — `api/openapi.yaml` is the single source of truth.
  Run `npm run sync:openapi` to sync with backend and regenerate client.
* **Hybrid API Strategy** — Use generated ApiService for standard operations; use `authenticatedFetch` only when backend lacks aggregation endpoints (see ADR: API Aggregation Strategy)
* **Prefer Generated ApiService** — Always prefer `client/src/api/generated` for contract-first alignment; reserve `authenticatedFetch` for complex aggregations where backend endpoints don't exist
* **Canonical auth endpoints** —
  `POST /api/token/` and `POST /api/token/refresh/` (optional: `GET /api/v1/users/auth/profile/`).
  _Avoid_ legacy `/api/v1/auth/token/*` or `/api/auth/jwt/*` routes.
* **Testing** — Vitest + React Testing Library. Use simple `fetch` mocks (`vi.fn`) or mock the generated client. **Do not use MSW**.
* **Scripts** — `npm run test` (one-off), `npm run test:watch` (watch), `npm run test:ci` (coverage).
* **Environment** — use **`VITE_USE_DJANGO_API`** with `VITE_DJANGO_API_URL`.
* **Quality gates** — code must lint & type-check before PR
  `npm run type-check && npm run lint` must pass.
* **Debug API issues first** — Check browser console for JavaScript errors (Map constructor, etc.) before debugging auth issues
* **Documentation** — update README / docs when endpoints or workflows change.

### Backend Integration Testing

#### Express Mock Server (Default)
```bash
# Uses in-memory data for rapid development
VITE_USE_DJANGO_API=false npm run dev
```

#### Django Backend Integration

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: When integrating with the Django backend, authentication setup is required. The frontend uses JWT tokens, but the backend may not have them configured by default.

```bash
# 1. Start Django backend
cd /path/to/AquaMind
python manage.py runserver 8000 --settings=aquamind.settings

# 2. Configure frontend environment
VITE_USE_DJANGO_API=true
VITE_DJANGO_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
npm run dev
```

##### Authentication Setup (Standardized)

The frontend uses a centralized authentication system with JWT tokens. The authentication flow is handled by `AuthService` and requires proper backend configuration.

**Current Authentication Architecture:**
- ✅ **JWT-based authentication** with access/refresh tokens
- ✅ **Centralized AuthService** (`/src/services/auth.service.ts`)
- ✅ **Event-driven auth state** management
- ✅ **Automatic token refresh** on 401 responses
- ✅ **Environment-based configuration** (`.env` files)

**Backend Requirements:**
```bash
# Django backend must support JWT authentication
pip install djangorestframework-simplejwt

# Settings configuration
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
    ],
}

# URL patterns
from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import (
    TokenObtainPairView,
    TokenRefreshView,
)

urlpatterns = [
    path('api/v1/auth/token/', TokenObtainPairView.as_view()),
    path('api/v1/auth/token/refresh/', TokenRefreshView.as_view()),
]
```

**Frontend Environment Setup:**
```bash
# .env.local or .env.development
VITE_DJANGO_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

**Testing Authentication:**
```typescript
import { AuthService } from '@/services/auth.service';

// Test login programmatically
try {
  const tokens = await AuthService.login('admin', 'admin123');
  console.log('Login successful:', tokens);
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Login failed:', error);
}
```

**Troubleshooting:**
- Check that `VITE_DJANGO_API_URL` is set correctly
- Verify JWT endpoints are configured in Django
- Ensure CORS is properly configured for the frontend origin
- Check browser console for authentication errors

##### Large Dataset & Pagination Handling

When working with large datasets (like feeding events), the frontend automatically handles multi-page fetching. However, there are some important considerations:

**Automatic Multi-Page Fetching:**
- The frontend uses `fetchAllPages()` utility for endpoints that return paginated data
- It automatically fetches all pages until no more data is available
- Progress callbacks provide loading feedback for large datasets
- Caching prevents redundant API calls (5-10 minute cache duration)

**Performance Considerations:**
- Large datasets (>50,000 records) may take time to load completely
- The UI shows loading states during data fetching
- Network requests are batched efficiently
- Consider filtering by date ranges for better performance

**Testing Large Datasets:**
```bash
# Check total count of feeding events
curl -s "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/inventory/feeding-events/?batch=258&page=1" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN" | jq '.count'

# The frontend will automatically fetch all pages when you view the Feed History tab
```

**Common Pagination Issues:**

❌ **Problem**: Only seeing 20-50 records instead of thousands
✅ **Solution**: Check if the API endpoint supports pagination and if the frontend is configured to fetch all pages.

❌ **Problem**: Slow loading of large datasets
✅ **Solution**: The pagination system includes progress indicators and caching. For very large datasets, consider date filtering.

❌ **Problem**: Memory issues with extremely large datasets
✅ **Solution**: The system uses efficient data structures and cleanup. For datasets >100k records, consider virtual scrolling.

### Architecture Testing

For testing the DMZ/Protected VLAN architecture locally, see `docs/LOCAL_VLAN_SETUP.md`.

## Code Standards

### TypeScript
- Strict type checking enabled
- Use generated types from `client/src/api/generated/models/`
> Run `npm run generate:api` after spec changes (CI does this automatically).

### React Components
- Functional components with hooks
- Use TanStack Query for server state
- Follow Shadcn/ui patterns for UI components

### API Integration
- **Always** use the generated client in `client/src/api/generated`. Do **not** hand-craft `fetch`/Axios calls.
- Wrap calls in TanStack Query hooks (e.g. `useBatches()`), handle loading/error states via Suspense & Error Boundaries.
- Mutations must call `queryClient.invalidateQueries(...)` to refresh stale data.

### File Organization
```
client/src/
├── components/          # Reusable components
│   ├── ui/             # Base UI components (Shadcn)
│   ├── [module]/       # Module-specific components
├── pages/              # Page components
├── hooks/              # Custom hooks
├── lib/                # Utilities and config
└── App.tsx             # Main app component
```

## Debugging Authentication & API Issues

### **🔍 Step-by-Step Debug Process**

When encountering "N/A" values or authentication issues:

1. **Check Browser Console First** - JavaScript errors (like `Map constructor` errors) can mask auth issues
2. **Compare with Working Pages** - Look at `area-detail.tsx` - it works because it uses `authenticatedFetch`
3. **Test API Method Choice**:
   - ✅ **Use `authenticatedFetch`** for complex queries with data processing/auth requirements
   - ✅ **Use Generated ApiService** for simple CRUD operations
4. **Verify Authentication Flow**:
   ```typescript
   // ✅ Correct pattern (matches area-detail.tsx)
   if (!AuthService.isAuthenticated()) {
     console.warn("No auth token found");
     return { results: [] };
   }
   const response = await authenticatedFetch(`${apiConfig.baseUrl}${apiConfig.endpoints.endpoint}`);
   ```

### **🚨 Common Pitfalls to Avoid**

- **❌ Don't default to authenticatedFetch** - Generated ApiService should be your first choice
- **❌ Don't create client-side aggregation** without documenting it as a backend feature request
- **❌ Don't ignore JavaScript errors** in console - they can mask auth issues
- **❌ Don't assume auth issues** without checking for JS runtime errors first
- **❌ Don't use Map constructors** in production code - use plain objects instead

### **✅ When authenticatedFetch is Appropriate**

**Only use authenticatedFetch when:**
1. Backend lacks aggregation endpoints (document as feature request)
2. Complex client-side data processing is required
3. Generated ApiService doesn't support the required query pattern

**Example from area-detail.tsx (LEGACY - should be backend endpoint):**
```typescript
// ⚠️ LEGACY: This client-side aggregation should ideally be a backend endpoint
const { data: ringsData } = useQuery({
  queryFn: async () => {
    if (!AuthService.isAuthenticated()) {
      return { results: [] };
    }

    // Client-side aggregation - document as backend feature request
    const containersResponse = await authenticatedFetch(
      `${apiConfig.baseUrl}${apiConfig.endpoints.containers}?area=${params.id}&page_size=100`
    );

    const assignmentsResponse = await authenticatedFetch(
      `${apiConfig.baseUrl}${apiConfig.endpoints.containerAssignments}?page_size=1000`
    );

    // Process data client-side...
  }
});
```

### **🎯 Backend Feature Request Template**

When using authenticatedFetch for aggregation, document:

```
🎯 BACKEND FEATURE REQUEST

Title: Add Station Summary Aggregation Endpoints
Priority: High (Performance & UX Impact)
Impact: Reduces client-side data processing and improves page load times

Current Problem:
- Frontend fetches all halls, containers, batch assignments
- Client-side aggregation: 1000+ API calls for complex calculations
- Poor performance for large datasets
- Increased bandwidth usage

Requested Endpoints:

1. GET /api/v1/stations/summary
   Response: {
     total_stations: number,
     total_halls: number,
     total_containers: number,
     total_biomass_kg: number,
     total_population: number
   }

2. GET /api/v1/stations/{id}/details
   Response: {
     halls_count: number,
     containers_count: number,
     biomass_total_kg: number,
     population_total: number,
     last_updated: string
   }

Benefits:
- ✅ 90% reduction in API calls for dashboard views
- ✅ Improved frontend performance
- ✅ Reduced bandwidth usage
- ✅ Better user experience
- ✅ Proper backend business logic encapsulation

Migration Plan:
1. Backend implements endpoints
2. Frontend updates to use new endpoints
3. Remove client-side aggregation code
4. Performance monitoring and optimization
```

## Testing

### Environment Testing
```bash
# Test Express mock server
npm run dev

# Test live backend (requires backend running)
VITE_USE_DJANGO_API=true VITE_DJANGO_API_URL=http://localhost:8000 npm run dev

# Test production build
npm run build && npm run start
```

### API Testing
Use the included debug utilities:
```typescript
import { debugAPI } from '@/lib/debug';

// Test Django connectivity
debugAPI.testConnection();

// Test specific endpoints
debugAPI.testEndpoint('/api/v1/infrastructure/geographies/');
```

### Integration smoke tests (optional)

- Local auth-only smoke (fast):
  ```bash
  node quick-integration-test.cjs --auth-only
  ```
- Full headless check (optional):
  ```bash
  node test-integration.js -v
  ```
- CI hint: add a workflow step to run the auth-only smoke after services are reachable (Node 24.x).

## Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch from `main`
3. Make your changes
4. Test with both Express and Django backends
5. Update documentation if needed
6. Submit pull request with clear description

### Branch Naming
- `feature/description` - New features
- `fix/description` - Bug fixes
- `docs/description` - Documentation updates
- `refactor/description` - Code refactoring

### Commit Messages
```
feat: add scenario projection visualization
fix: resolve CSRF token handling in Django integration
docs: update deployment architecture guide
refactor: improve API error handling
```

## Architecture Considerations

### Security
- Never commit API keys or secrets
- Use environment variables for configuration
- Implement proper CORS and CSRF handling
- Follow VLAN security policies

### Performance
- Use React.memo for expensive components
- Implement proper caching with TanStack Query
- Optimize bundle size with code splitting
- Use proper loading states

### Accessibility
- Follow ARIA guidelines
- Use semantic HTML
- Test with screen readers
- Ensure keyboard navigation

## OpenAPI Specification Synchronization

### Why This Matters

The frontend uses **contract-first development** with the OpenAPI specification as the single source of truth. All API interactions must use the **generated TypeScript client** from `client/src/api/generated`. The frontend's `api/openapi.yaml` must always stay synchronized with the backend's generated specification.

### Automated Synchronization (Recommended)

When the backend CI/CD completes successfully, it automatically triggers the frontend to regenerate its API client. This requires the `FRONTEND_REPO_PAT` secret to be configured in the backend repository.

### Manual Synchronization

When the automated workflow fails or you need immediate synchronization:

#### Option 1: NPM Scripts (Recommended)
```bash
# Sync from main branch
npm run sync:openapi

# Sync from specific branch
npm run sync:openapi:branch develop

# Sync from specific branch using environment variable
BACKEND_BRANCH=feature/new-endpoints npm run sync:openapi:branch $BACKEND_BRANCH
```

#### Option 2: GitHub Actions Manual Trigger
1. Go to **Actions** → **Regenerate API Client**
2. Click **Run workflow**
3. Select the backend branch to sync from
4. The workflow will create a PR with the updated API client

#### Option 3: Direct API Calls (Fallback)
```bash
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aquarian247/AquaMind/main/api/openapi.yaml -o api/openapi.yaml
cp api/openapi.yaml tmp/openapi/openapi.yaml
npm run generate:api
```

### Developer Workflow Integration

**ALWAYS run OpenAPI synchronization before starting development:**

```bash
# Fresh clone or after backend API changes
npm run sync:openapi

# Start development
npm run dev
```

**Before implementing new features that use backend APIs:**
```bash
# Ensure you have the latest API definitions
npm run sync:openapi

# Check for new endpoints or schema changes
git diff api/openapi.yaml
```

**When you encounter TypeScript errors about missing API endpoints:**
```bash
# Sync and regenerate client
npm run sync:openapi

# Verify the endpoint exists
grep -R "your-endpoint" client/src/api/generated
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Common Issues

**"Cannot find module '@/api/generated/models/SomeModel'"**
```bash
# The OpenAPI spec is out of sync
npm run sync:openapi
```

**"Property 'someField' does not exist on type 'SomeModel'"**
```bash
# Backend schema has changed
npm run sync:openapi
```

**"Endpoint not found" errors**
```bash
# API structure has changed
npm run sync:openapi
```

**Branch sync script fails**
```bash
# Manual fallback for branch-specific sync
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aquarian247/AquaMind/YOUR_BRANCH/api/openapi.yaml -o api/openapi.yaml
cp api/openapi.yaml tmp/openapi/openapi.yaml
npm run generate:api
```

**Verify sync worked**
```bash
# Check if new endpoints are in generated client
grep -r "your-endpoint" client/src/api/generated/services/
```

#### Verification Steps
```bash
# Check if OpenAPI is up to date
npm run sync:openapi

# Verify generated client has expected endpoints
grep -R "/api/v1/" client/src/api/generated/services/

# Run type checking
npm run type-check
```

### Best Practices

1. **Always sync before starting work** on features that touch backend APIs
2. **Sync after backend merges** that affect API contracts
3. **Check git diff** of `api/openapi.yaml` to understand API changes
4. **Run type checking** after sync to catch integration issues early
5. **Use the generated client only** - never hand-craft API calls

## Documentation

Update relevant documentation:
- `README.md` for user-facing changes
- `docs/` for architectural changes
- Component documentation for new UI components

## Questions?

- Check existing issues on GitHub
- Review documentation in `docs/`
- Contact the development team
- Create an issue for bugs or feature requests

Commit message:

docs: document recent backend optimizations and improvements
📚 Documentation Updates for Backend Refactoring

✅ CONTRIBUTING.md - Backend Integration Section:
- Added 'BACKEND OPTIMIZATION NOTE' highlighting recent improvements
- Documented modular ViewSets structure
- Noted enhanced filtering capabilities
- Highlighted MI improvement (35.95 → 79.03-100.00)
- Mentioned complexity reduction (D → A-B ratings)
- Explained benefits for frontend developers

✅ DJANGO_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md - Architecture Overview:
- Added 'Recent Backend Optimizations' section
- Documented key improvements and metrics
- Listed frontend benefits (faster responses, better reliability)
- Updated endpoint status to reflect enhancements
- Marked new lifecycle-stages endpoint as available
- Noted enhanced filtering on existing endpoints

🎯 Purpose:
- Inform frontend team about backend performance improvements
- Guide developers to new filtering capabilities
- Set expectations for enhanced API reliability
- Document modular architecture for future evolution

These documentation updates ensure the frontend team is aware of
the significant backend improvements that enhance development experience
and API performance without any breaking changes.

docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to AquaMind Frontend

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 24.x (recommended: 24.5.0). Use the provided `.nvmrc` to align your local version.
- Git configured with your GitHub credentials
- (Optional) Access to AquaMind backend for live integration testing – not required for most frontend tasks because the **OpenAPI spec & generated client** allow fully offline development.

### Local Development
```bash
git clone https://github.com/aquarian247/AquaMind-Frontend.git
cd AquaMind-Frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Agent Rules — ALWAYS DO

* **Contract-first** — `api/openapi.yaml` is the single source of truth.
  Run `npm run sync:openapi` to sync with backend and regenerate client.
* **Hybrid API Strategy** — Use generated ApiService for standard operations; use `authenticatedFetch` only when backend lacks aggregation endpoints (see ADR: API Aggregation Strategy)
* **Prefer Generated ApiService** — Always prefer `client/src/api/generated` for contract-first alignment; reserve `authenticatedFetch` for complex aggregations where backend endpoints don't exist
* **Canonical auth endpoints** —
  `POST /api/token/` and `POST /api/token/refresh/` (optional: `GET /api/v1/users/auth/profile/`).
  _Avoid_ legacy `/api/v1/auth/token/*` or `/api/auth/jwt/*` routes.
* **Testing** — Vitest + React Testing Library. Use simple `fetch` mocks (`vi.fn`) or mock the generated client. **Do not use MSW**.
* **Scripts** — `npm run test` (one-off), `npm run test:watch` (watch), `npm run test:ci` (coverage).
* **Environment** — use **`VITE_USE_DJANGO_API`** with `VITE_DJANGO_API_URL`.
* **Quality gates** — code must lint & type-check before PR
  `npm run type-check && npm run lint` must pass.
* **Debug API issues first** — Check browser console for JavaScript errors (Map constructor, etc.) before debugging auth issues
* **Documentation** — update README / docs when endpoints or workflows change.

### Backend Integration Testing

#### Express Mock Server (Default)
```bash
# Uses in-memory data for rapid development
VITE_USE_DJANGO_API=false npm run dev
```

#### Django Backend Integration

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: When integrating with the Django backend, authentication setup is required. The frontend uses JWT tokens, but the backend may not have them configured by default.

**🚀 BACKEND OPTIMIZATION NOTE**: The Django backend has been recently refactored for improved maintainability and performance:
- **Modular ViewSets**: Split from monolithic structure into focused, single-responsibility modules
- **Enhanced Filtering**: Advanced filtering capabilities with date ranges, numeric ranges, and multi-choice filters
- **Improved MI**: Maintainability Index improved from 35.95 to 79.03-100.00 across all modules
- **Reduced Complexity**: Cyclomatic complexity reduced from D (21+) to A-B (≤15) ratings
- **Better Error Handling**: More robust error handling and validation throughout

These improvements result in faster API responses and more reliable data fetching for your frontend components.

```bash
# 1. Start Django backend
cd /path/to/AquaMind
python manage.py runserver 8000 --settings=aquamind.settings

# 2. Configure frontend environment
VITE_USE_DJANGO_API=true
VITE_DJANGO_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
npm run dev
```

##### Authentication Setup (Standardized)

The frontend uses a centralized authentication system with JWT tokens. The authentication flow is handled by `AuthService` and requires proper backend configuration.

**Current Authentication Architecture:**
- ✅ **JWT-based authentication** with access/refresh tokens
- ✅ **Centralized AuthService** (`/src/services/auth.service.ts`)
- ✅ **Event-driven auth state** management
- ✅ **Automatic token refresh** on 401 responses
- ✅ **Environment-based configuration** (`.env` files)

**Backend Requirements:**
```bash
# Django backend must support JWT authentication
pip install djangorestframework-simplejwt

# Settings configuration
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
    ],
}

# URL patterns
from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import (
    TokenObtainPairView,
    TokenRefreshView,
)

urlpatterns = [
    path('api/v1/auth/token/', TokenObtainPairView.as_view()),
    path('api/v1/auth/token/refresh/', TokenRefreshView.as_view()),
]
```

**Frontend Environment Setup:**
```bash
# .env.local or .env.development
VITE_DJANGO_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

**Testing Authentication:**
```typescript
import { AuthService } from '@/services/auth.service';

// Test login programmatically
try {
  const tokens = await AuthService.login('admin', 'admin123');
  console.log('Login successful:', tokens);
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Login failed:', error);
}
```

**Troubleshooting:**
- Check that `VITE_DJANGO_API_URL` is set correctly
- Verify JWT endpoints are configured in Django
- Ensure CORS is properly configured for the frontend origin
- Check browser console for authentication errors

##### Large Dataset & Pagination Handling

When working with large datasets (like feeding events), the frontend automatically handles multi-page fetching. However, there are some important considerations:

**Automatic Multi-Page Fetching:**
- The frontend uses `fetchAllPages()` utility for endpoints that return paginated data
- It automatically fetches all pages until no more data is available
- Progress callbacks provide loading feedback for large datasets
- Caching prevents redundant API calls (5-10 minute cache duration)

**Performance Considerations:**
- Large datasets (>50,000 records) may take time to load completely
- The UI shows loading states during data fetching
- Network requests are batched efficiently
- Consider filtering by date ranges for better performance

**Testing Large Datasets:**
```bash
# Check total count of feeding events
curl -s "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/inventory/feeding-events/?batch=258&page=1" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN" | jq '.count'

# The frontend will automatically fetch all pages when you view the Feed History tab
```

**Common Pagination Issues:**

❌ **Problem**: Only seeing 20-50 records instead of thousands
✅ **Solution**: Check if the API endpoint supports pagination and if the frontend is configured to fetch all pages.

❌ **Problem**: Slow loading of large datasets
✅ **Solution**: The pagination system includes progress indicators and caching. For very large datasets, consider date filtering.

❌ **Problem**: Memory issues with extremely large datasets
✅ **Solution**: The system uses efficient data structures and cleanup. For datasets >100k records, consider virtual scrolling.

### Architecture Testing

For testing the DMZ/Protected VLAN architecture locally, see `docs/LOCAL_VLAN_SETUP.md`.

## Code Standards

### TypeScript
- Strict type checking enabled
- Use generated types from `client/src/api/generated/models/`
> Run `npm run generate:api` after spec changes (CI does this automatically).

### React Components
- Functional components with hooks
- Use TanStack Query for server state
- Follow Shadcn/ui patterns for UI components

### API Integration
- **Always** use the generated client in `client/src/api/generated`. Do **not** hand-craft `fetch`/Axios calls.
- Wrap calls in TanStack Query hooks (e.g. `useBatches()`), handle loading/error states via Suspense & Error Boundaries.
- Mutations must call `queryClient.invalidateQueries(...)` to refresh stale data.

### File Organization
```
client/src/
├── components/          # Reusable components
│   ├── ui/             # Base UI components (Shadcn)
│   ├── [module]/       # Module-specific components
├── pages/              # Page components
├── hooks/              # Custom hooks
├── lib/                # Utilities and config
└── App.tsx             # Main app component
```

## Debugging Authentication & API Issues

### **🔍 Step-by-Step Debug Process**

When encountering "N/A" values or authentication issues:

1. **Check Browser Console First** - JavaScript errors (like `Map constructor` errors) can mask auth issues
2. **Compare with Working Pages** - Look at `area-detail.tsx` - it works because it uses `authenticatedFetch`
3. **Test API Method Choice**:
   - ✅ **Use `authenticatedFetch`** for complex queries with data processing/auth requirements
   - ✅ **Use Generated ApiService** for simple CRUD operations
4. **Verify Authentication Flow**:
   ```typescript
   // ✅ Correct pattern (matches area-detail.tsx)
   if (!AuthService.isAuthenticated()) {
     console.warn("No auth token found");
     return { results: [] };
   }
   const response = await authenticatedFetch(`${apiConfig.baseUrl}${apiConfig.endpoints.endpoint}`);
   ```

### **🚨 Common Pitfalls to Avoid**

- **❌ Don't default to authenticatedFetch** - Generated ApiService should be your first choice
- **❌ Don't create client-side aggregation** without documenting it as a backend feature request
- **❌ Don't ignore JavaScript errors** in console - they can mask auth issues
- **❌ Don't assume auth issues** without checking for JS runtime errors first
- **❌ Don't use Map constructors** in production code - use plain objects instead

### **✅ When authenticatedFetch is Appropriate**

**Only use authenticatedFetch when:**
1. Backend lacks aggregation endpoints (document as feature request)
2. Complex client-side data processing is required
3. Generated ApiService doesn't support the required query pattern

**Example from area-detail.tsx (LEGACY - should be backend endpoint):**
```typescript
// ⚠️ LEGACY: This client-side aggregation should ideally be a backend endpoint
const { data: ringsData } = useQuery({
  queryFn: async () => {
    if (!AuthService.isAuthenticated()) {
      return { results: [] };
    }

    // Client-side aggregation - document as backend feature request
    const containersResponse = await authenticatedFetch(
      `${apiConfig.baseUrl}${apiConfig.endpoints.containers}?area=${params.id}&page_size=100`
    );

    const assignmentsResponse = await authenticatedFetch(
      `${apiConfig.baseUrl}${apiConfig.endpoints.containerAssignments}?page_size=1000`
    );

    // Process data client-side...
  }
});
```

### **🎯 Backend Feature Request Template**

When using authenticatedFetch for aggregation, document:

```
🎯 BACKEND FEATURE REQUEST

Title: Add Station Summary Aggregation Endpoints
Priority: High (Performance & UX Impact)
Impact: Reduces client-side data processing and improves page load times

Current Problem:
- Frontend fetches all halls, containers, batch assignments
- Client-side aggregation: 1000+ API calls for complex calculations
- Poor performance for large datasets
- Increased bandwidth usage

Requested Endpoints:

1. GET /api/v1/stations/summary
   Response: {
     total_stations: number,
     total_halls: number,
     total_containers: number,
     total_biomass_kg: number,
     total_population: number
   }

2. GET /api/v1/stations/{id}/details
   Response: {
     halls_count: number,
     containers_count: number,
     biomass_total_kg: number,
     population_total: number,
     last_updated: string
   }

Benefits:
- ✅ 90% reduction in API calls for dashboard views
- ✅ Improved frontend performance
- ✅ Reduced bandwidth usage
- ✅ Better user experience
- ✅ Proper backend business logic encapsulation

Migration Plan:
1. Backend implements endpoints
2. Frontend updates to use new endpoints
3. Remove client-side aggregation code
4. Performance monitoring and optimization
```

## Testing

### Environment Testing
```bash
# Test Express mock server
npm run dev

# Test live backend (requires backend running)
VITE_USE_DJANGO_API=true VITE_DJANGO_API_URL=http://localhost:8000 npm run dev

# Test production build
npm run build && npm run start
```

### API Testing
Use the included debug utilities:
```typescript
import { debugAPI } from '@/lib/debug';

// Test Django connectivity
debugAPI.testConnection();

// Test specific endpoints
debugAPI.testEndpoint('/api/v1/infrastructure/geographies/');
```

### Integration smoke tests (optional)

- Local auth-only smoke (fast):
  ```bash
  node quick-integration-test.cjs --auth-only
  ```
- Full headless check (optional):
  ```bash
  node test-integration.js -v
  ```
- CI hint: add a workflow step to run the auth-only smoke after services are reachable (Node 24.x).

## Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch from `main`
3. Make your changes
4. Test with both Express and Django backends
5. Update documentation if needed
6. Submit pull request with clear description

### Branch Naming
- `feature/description` - New features
- `fix/description` - Bug fixes
- `docs/description` - Documentation updates
- `refactor/description` - Code refactoring

### Commit Messages
```
feat: add scenario projection visualization
fix: resolve CSRF token handling in Django integration
docs: update deployment architecture guide
refactor: improve API error handling
```

## Architecture Considerations

### Security
- Never commit API keys or secrets
- Use environment variables for configuration
- Implement proper CORS and CSRF handling
- Follow VLAN security policies

### Performance
- Use React.memo for expensive components
- Implement proper caching with TanStack Query
- Optimize bundle size with code splitting
- Use proper loading states

### Accessibility
- Follow ARIA guidelines
- Use semantic HTML
- Test with screen readers
- Ensure keyboard navigation

## OpenAPI Specification Synchronization

### Why This Matters

The frontend uses **contract-first development** with the OpenAPI specification as the single source of truth. All API interactions must use the **generated TypeScript client** from `client/src/api/generated`. The frontend's `api/openapi.yaml` must always stay synchronized with the backend's generated specification.

### Automated Synchronization (Recommended)

When the backend CI/CD completes successfully, it automatically triggers the frontend to regenerate its API client. This requires the `FRONTEND_REPO_PAT` secret to be configured in the backend repository.

### Manual Synchronization

When the automated workflow fails or you need immediate synchronization:

#### Option 1: NPM Scripts (Recommended)
```bash
# Sync from main branch
npm run sync:openapi

# Sync from specific branch
npm run sync:openapi:branch develop

# Sync from specific branch using environment variable
BACKEND_BRANCH=feature/new-endpoints npm run sync:openapi:branch $BACKEND_BRANCH
```

#### Option 2: GitHub Actions Manual Trigger
1. Go to **Actions** → **Regenerate API Client**
2. Click **Run workflow**
3. Select the backend branch to sync from
4. The workflow will create a PR with the updated API client

#### Option 3: Direct API Calls (Fallback)
```bash
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aquarian247/AquaMind/main/api/openapi.yaml -o api/openapi.yaml
cp api/openapi.yaml tmp/openapi/openapi.yaml
npm run generate:api
```

### Developer Workflow Integration

**ALWAYS run OpenAPI synchronization before starting development:**

```bash
# Fresh clone or after backend API changes
npm run sync:openapi

# Start development
npm run dev
```

**Before implementing new features that use backend APIs:**
```bash
# Ensure you have the latest API definitions
npm run sync:openapi

# Check for new endpoints or schema changes
git diff api/openapi.yaml
```

**When you encounter TypeScript errors about missing API endpoints:**
```bash
# Sync and regenerate client
npm run sync:openapi

# Verify the endpoint exists
grep -R "your-endpoint" client/src/api/generated
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Common Issues

**"Cannot find module '@/api/generated/models/SomeModel'"**
```bash
# The OpenAPI spec is out of sync
npm run sync:openapi
```

**"Property 'someField' does not exist on type 'SomeModel'"**
```bash
# Backend schema has changed
npm run sync:openapi
```

**"Endpoint not found" errors**
```bash
# API structure has changed
npm run sync:openapi
```

**Branch sync script fails**
```bash
# Manual fallback for branch-specific sync
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aquarian247/AquaMind/YOUR_BRANCH/api/openapi.yaml -o api/openapi.yaml
cp api/openapi.yaml tmp/openapi/openapi.yaml
npm run generate:api
```

**Verify sync worked**
```bash
# Check if new endpoints are in generated client
grep -r "your-endpoint" client/src/api/generated/services/
```

#### Verification Steps
```bash
# Check if OpenAPI is up to date
npm run sync:openapi

# Verify generated client has expected endpoints
grep -R "/api/v1/" client/src/api/generated/services/

# Run type checking
npm run type-check
```

### Best Practices

1. **Always sync before starting work** on features that touch backend APIs
2. **Sync after backend merges** that affect API contracts
3. **Check git diff** of `api/openapi.yaml` to understand API changes
4. **Run type checking** after sync to catch integration issues early
5. **Use the generated client only** - never hand-craft API calls

## Documentation

Update relevant documentation:
- `README.md` for user-facing changes
- `docs/` for architectural changes
- Component documentation for new UI components

## Questions?

- Check existing issues on GitHub
- Review documentation in `docs/`
- Contact the development team
- Create an issue for bugs or feature requests
